As you guessed it, there's not just one way to create dates.
In fact, there are four ways to create a date.
So let's have a quick look at them. The first way is what we've just done,
where we used "new Date()". And that just gives us the current date and time.
Straightforward hey?
Well, another way to create a date is in parentheses, and that date will be based on the amount of
milliseconds since 1st of January 1970.
The third way to create a date is to put in a date string in parentheses.
And as you guessed it, that'll just give you back the date that you specify.
And you can even be more specific.
You can specify the year, month, day, hour, minute, seconds and milliseconds.
And that'll just give you back the date, again that you specify.
Let's see a few examples now.
Let's see it in action!
So we've seen there are four ways to create a date.
And let's look at each one of them.
Let's say, let date1 equals "new Date()".
And we've seen this before.
This is what we did previously.
So let's log them (the results) out here.
So there it is. "new Date()" just gives us the current date and time.
Let's use the second one, and that is we give the function a timestamp. Let date2
equals new Date(), let's say zero.
What would you expect when I give it zero?
Remember what the Date means?
It starts from which day?
That's right.
1970, first of January. So if I do zero, it's basically saying move zero from that date, which should
give me that original date.
So let's log it out and see.
And there you go.
1st of January 1970. What's the third way?
The third ways is we can actually pass a date string.
Date3 equals new date
1 January
1970.
And we can specify a time just to make it the same - my timezone is different, just to make it the same as what's
displayed here, and log it out.
We get exactly the same.
And finally, let's look at the fourth way.
And this is where we have to pass multiple arguments, and if you miss one, JavaScript is just going
to assume it's a zero.
So the first thing we must specify is the year 1970
and the month.
Now, bear in mind, JavaScript's number system starts at base zero.
It starts at zero.
So January is not 1.
January is zero, and we want it to be the first of January.
The hour.
02 minutes
zero zero.
And it's just specify.
Zero seconds.
Now, if we log this out.
I would expect exactly the same thing.
And we do. I hope you're starting to feel more comfortable with dates. There's something now I just want to mention,
and that is the GET methods and the SET methods, on the Date.
Let's have a look.